---
title: Array in Javascript Part.1
date: 2019-11-20 11:31:30
categories:
- Javascript
tags: Basic Review Array
---

Today's topic of review is array in Javascript. There are numerous methods, so this topic will have many posts. 



# Get the Length of an Array (array.length)

Similar to String, using **.length** method will easily give you the length of an array.
 

```js

Example)

console.log( [1, 2, 3].length)

//Expected Outcome: 3
```


# Check whether an object is Array or not ( Array.isArray(obj) )

This method receives an array as an argument. It will return true if the object is an array, and false if not. 
Both array and object give "object" as a result of **typeof** function, so this method is crucial for checking if the type is an array or not. 

```js
Example)

let example = [1, 3, 5];

console.log ( Array.isArray(example) )

//Expected Outcome: true
```


# Applying change to each element of an Array
**(array.forEach(callback) ) * immutable**

This method is immutable, meaning that you cannot change the original array. 
It also returns nothing, as it will always return undefined. The method receives a function and calls it for each element of the array. 

```js

Example)

var array1 = ['a', 'b', 'c'];

array1.forEach(function(element) {

  console.log(element);

});

// expected output: "a"

// expected output: "b"

// expected output: "c"
```


# Applying change to each element of an Array #2 
**( array.map(callback) ) *immutable**

**map** works in a similar fashion as **forEach**, but always needs **return** in its callback function. 
It also saves memory and saves the returning value. If you prefer a faster method and functional programming, **map** is the better method to use. **forEach** affects the original array while **map** returns a new array. 

```js
Example)

var array1 = [1, 4, 9, 16];

const map1 = array1.map(x => x * 2);

console.log(map1);

// expected output: Array [2, 8, 18, 32]
```


# Filtering what you want in an Array (hint hint)
**( array.filter(callback) ) * immutable**

**filter** is a method that is called as many times as the length of an array. It filters only the elements that correspond to the callback function. You need a Boolean type return in your callback function. It is useful when you want to filter!
The difference between **forEach** and **filter** is that **forEach** goes in a loop and simply carries out the callback function while **filter** carries out the callback function and checks the return value. 


```js
Example)

var words = ['spray', 'limit', 'elite', 'exuberant', 'destruction', 'present'];

const result = words.filter(word => word.length > 6);

console.log(result);

// expected output: Array ["exuberant", "destruction", "present"]
```

That's it for today!
