---
title: String in Javascript Part.2
date: 2019-11-19 11:40:30
categories:
- Javascript
tags: Basic Review String
---

# Introduction
Part 2 on strings in Javascript. We will go over some common string methods. 

**All string methods are immutable, meaning that the original string does not change and the method returns a new string. Later when we move on to methods on Arrays, some methods are mutable. For string methods, nope!**

## Change String to lowercase or uppercase
**(string.toLowerCase() / string.toUpperCase() )**
Use the first method to make the string lowercase and the latter to make the string uppercase.

```js
Example)
console.log("word".toUpperCase())
//Expected outcome: "WORD"
```

## Remove empty space at both ends of String
**(string.trim())**
This method removes any whitespace/empty space at both front or end of the string. 
```js
Example)
console.log("       word      ".trim() )
//Expected outcome: "word"
```

Other methods to go over are replace and match, which make use of Regular Expression. 

## Regular Expression

- Regular expressions are patterns used to match character combinations in strings. In JavaScript, regular expressions are also objects.

### How to Use RegExp
There are two different ways to use regular expression:


1. let var = /ab+c/ 
Use a regular expression literal, which consists of a pattern enclosed between slashes.

2. let var = new RegExp("ab+c")
Call the constructor function of the RegExp object

Using the constructor function provides runtime compilation of the regular expression, so when you know that the pattern will change or need to bring it from a different source, use the constructor.


### Methods that use RegExp

**Method	Description**

**exec:**	Executes a search for a match in a string. It returns an array of information or null on a mismatch. 

**test:**	Tests for a match in a string. It returns true or false. 

**match:**	Returns an array containing all of the matches, including capturing groups, or null if no match is found. 

**search:**	
Tests for a match in a string. It returns the index of the match, or -1 if the search fails. 

**replace**	Executes a search for a match in a string, and replaces the matched substring with a replacement substring. 

**split**	Uses a regular expression or a fixed string to break a string into an array of substrings. 

These are methods that use RegExp, as listed on MDN. 

** End of Review on String! **

Sources:
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_Expressions