---
title: String in Javascript Part.1
date: 2019-11-19 23:31:30
categories:
- Javascript
tags: Basic Review String
---

# Introduction
The second topic for review is string. String is primitive type!
We will go over various methods related to string! (Thanks to Google and MDN)


# Information about String
### Access/Read String
Using String[index], you can read nth character of the string. You cannot edit or write. It is read only. 

```js
Example)
  let example = "Chicken";
  example[2] = "i"
```
Remember that an index starts at 0. 
### Connect String (+ or String.concat)

When you use +, you can add other data types into a string right away. This is only possible when one of the element you are adding is string. There is a string method, "Concat", but + is used more often. 

```js
Example)
  let part1 = "Coca"
  let part2 = "Cola"
console.log(part1 + part2);
//Expected Outcome: "CocaCola"
console.log(part1.concat(" ", part2);
//Expected Outcome: "Coca Cola"
```
### Get Length of String (String.length)
Simple. Use String.length to get its length. 
```js
Example)
let giveme = "Ineedsleep";
console.log(giveme.length);
//Expected Outcome: 10
```

### Find index of an element in String
#### (String.indexOf & lastIndexOf)
The argument of this method will be the element you are looking for. **indexOf** will return the index of the first element you are looking for in the string. **lastIndexOf** looks for the element from the end of the string. If the element does not exist, both return -1. **String.includes** just checks whether the element exists in the string, returning a boolean value. 

```js
Example)
let food = "Chicken Nugget";

console.log( food.indexOf("k") );
//Expected Outcome: 4
console.log( food.lastIndexOf("g") );
//Expected Outcome: 11
console.log( food.indexOf("Nugget") );
//Expected Outcome: 8 
//returns index!
console.log( food.includes("x") );
//Expected Outcome: false
```
### When you want to make String into an Array! (String.split)
Useful to handle **csv (comma-separated variables)**. Split information by comma into separate elements. 
```js
Example)
let car = "Bentley";
console.log(car.split(""));
//Expected Outcome: ["B", "e", "n", "t", "l", "e", "y"]
```

### Cut String (String.slice or String.substring)
There are two methods you can slice string from nth index to nth index. **slice** and **substring** are two similar methods that have their differences. Both receive start and end, where end is an optional parameter. 


**string.slice(beginIndex, [, endIndex])** vs **string.substring(indexStart, [, indexEnd])**

1. When input is a negative number:
- slice: calculate after adding the negative number to the string's legnth. For example, when you do slice(-7, -3) to a string with the length of 8, it will add 8 to each number and treat it as slice(1, 5).
- substring: treat as 0. 

2. With no index for end:
- Both methods slice until the last element of the string

3. When starting index is bigger than the ending index:
- slice: return an empty string.
- substring: swap starting and ending index and slice. 

4. When starting index is bigger than the length of string or starting and ending index are the same: 
- Return an empty string. 
 

Warning: Although String.prototype.substr(...) is not strictly deprecated ( as in "removed from the Web standards"), it is considered a legacy function and should be avoided when possible. It is not part of the core JavaScript language and may be removed in the future. If at all possible, use the substring() method instead. 


**End of Part 1**